[DOCS-5260] Improve documentation around Ignoring APM Resources (#34482)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/guide/ignoring_apm_resources.md

<div class="alert alert-info">Sampling decisions are determined using the first span in a trace. If the span containing the tag you want to filter on is not a {{< tooltip glossary="trace root span" case="sentence" >}}, this rule is not applied.</div>

## Filtering in the Datadog Agent

If you don't want the span ingested or reflected in trace metrics, use filtering in the Datadog Agent.

> The Trace Agent component within the Datadog Agent has two methods to prevent certain traces from being sent: ignoring span tags or ignoring resources. If traces are dropped due to these settings, the trace metrics exclude these requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Trace Agent component within the Datadog Agent has two methods to prevent certain traces from being sent: filtering by span tags or filtering by resources. If traces are dropped due to these settings, the trace metrics exclude these requests.
```

Reviewer: Minor clarification since my understanding is that the span tags and resources are not what's being ignored, but are being used as filters. Open to your input if I'm misunderstanding, or you have a better phrasing in mind.

Configuring the Trace Agent to ignore certain traces or resources applies to all services that send traces to this Datadog Agent. If you have application-specific requirements, use [Tracer configuration](#tracer-configuration) instead.

<div class="alert alert-info">
If none of the options in this guide meet your requirements, consider adding a <a href="/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/otel_instrumentation/">custom span tag</a> in your application and using it to drop traces at the Agent.
</div>

> ### Ignoring based on span tags

Reviewer: I recognize this is not part of your update, but this phrasing struck me as a bit awkward since `ignoring` is a transitive verb and requires a direct object

> Starting with Datadog Agent 6.27.0/7.27.0, the **filter tags** option drops traces with root spans that match specified span tags. This option applies to all services that send traces to this Datadog Agent. Traces that are dropped because of filter tags are not included in trace metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Datadog Agent 6.27.0 and 7.27.0, the **filter tags** option drops traces with root spans that match specified span tags. This option applies to all services that send traces to this Datadog Agent. Traces that are dropped because of filter tags are not included in trace metrics.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
Individual spans within a trace cannot be selectively dropped; if the root span matches the filter criteria, the complete trace is discarded.
</div>

> **Match behavior:**

Reviewer: Minor edit for consistency with nearby headings (like "Filtering in the Datadog Agent")

{{% k8s-helm-redeploy %}}

[1]: /agent/kubernetes/?tab=helm#installation

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "datadog.yaml" %}}

You can also set these values in the Agent configuration file using a comma-separated list:

{{< code-block lang="yaml" filename="datadog.yaml" >}}
apm_config:
  filter_tags:
    require: ["db:sql", "db.instance:mysql"]
    reject: ["outcome:success", "key2:value2"]
{{< /code-block >}}

For example, to ignore health checks where the `http.url` matches this endpoint:

{{< code-block lang="yaml" filename="datadog.yaml" >}}
apm_config:
  filter_tags:
    reject: ["http.url:http://localhost:5050/healthcheck"]
{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Available span tags

> On the backend, Datadog creates and adds the following span tags to spans after ingestion. 

Reviewer: Minor edit for redundancy
